*** Creating a demo version of a program with copy protection ***


Here are some techniques that I use in the project Demo.vbp, this techniques are often used 
in most systems who features Demo versions.

The general ideas behind all demo versions of commercial softwares that are sell all around
the world are almost the same:
Save some entries to the windows registry, describing basically the date of installation of the
demo version. This entry is always saved encrypted, or any other way that you cannot alter by
editing the registry.

The project here shows security scheme that is based upon three factors:

1 - Serial number of the HD
2 - Date of installation
3 - Number of times that the application has run.

 
Based on that, you can lock your application if the user has passed X days after the installation
or Y times the system has run.
All the entries are saved encrypted.

The serial number of the HD gives you the ability to let the user pass you his code, you apply
it to some mathematical expression and give back the user a registration code.
Every time the application starts, it checks for the HD's serial number and the registration code.
If they don't match (based on the math expression you used), there is some error and the 
application locks (or if you want, convert it back to the demo version).

If you want to delete the settings, go to
HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\VB and VBA Program Settings\DemoApp\Install
and delete the key.

NOTES: 
1 - You can design your software to be a Demo version by disabling some features, just by
assigning a public variable "Demo" as boolean.
2 - Here I save the settings using the standard "SaveSetting" and "GetSetting" functions from VB.
However, you can use an API function to place it anywhere else in the registry.
Alternatively to increase the security, you can put each of the settings in different
sections, to prevent the user from deleting the settings (wich would reinitialize the counter of
the demo version).

The encryption and decryption functions I picked up from Planet Source Code, but can't remember
from who it is. Sorry, and thanks!  :)


Hope this helps somebody.

Alexandre Moro
alb@cwb.matrix.com.br

